So some of the benefits,
is that you can denormalize your tables,
and it will simplify your queries.
As we saw during our last demo and exercise,
getting a table into third normal form is a lot of hard work,
and the join we had to do at the end of the process was very complex,
and we were working on a very simple data set.
Star schema allows for the relaxation of these rules,
and makes each queries easier with simple joints.
First aggregations.
These are all the benefits of using a star schema.
Aggregations perform calculations and clustering of
our data so that we do not have to do that work inside of our application.
Examples are count, group by, etc.
Some of the drawbacks of using a star schema.
There may become some issues that come with denormalization.
The issues that come with denormalization will happen when you're using a star schema.
Issues around data integrity and decrease query flexibility will come up.
The data integrity, that is an issue that may come
up because again your denormalizing your tables,
so data integrity issues may come up,
because you will have duplicated data spread across multiple tables.
And then decrease query flexibility.
Again, when you denormalize your tables,
you're not able, you're modeling to your query.
And so you're not as able to do as many ad-hoc queries on your tables.
Also many to many relationships.
This has been simplified,
one to one mapping and all its all the star schemas supports.
Many to many relationships are hard to support and are just
abstracted away for sake of simplicity and to fit the model.
So here's an example that I put together
that we're going to see also in our demo and in our exercise,
of a star schema using our music store database with a star schema.
So here again, in the middle,
we have our fact table,
we're going to call it customer transactions.
We're going to have Customer ID, Store ID,
and the amount that was spent at that store.
From there, we're going to have connections
again by foreign key two other dimension tables,
such as item purchased.
So here we're going to join on our customer ID.
Here's our customer, here's the item number that they bought,
and the item name.
So let's say in this if we own a music store,
we had a customer who bought an item,
which was an album, which was Rubber Soul.
And then from here, and second customer bought us another album.
Okay, so that's one of the points of our Star.
So here's another point of our Star which is customer.
So now again we can join on that customer ID,
and we're going to get information about our customer, name,
whether there were wards member,
their address, all things like that.
And then from there, we're going to have store ID.
So this now we're joining on a different foreign key.
So the store ID and It'll be able to join with the store table, and we have a store ID.
And then we're going to have information about that store, the state,
the city, store number,
address, things like that.
So as you can see, we have one table in the middle that is our fact table,
and and reading it out in Stars.
Star points are the dimension tables.